.github/skills/new-prototype/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: new-prototype
description: "Bootstrap a new prototype in the playground. Use when the user wants to create, add, or scaffold a new prototype page."
---

# Bootstrap a New Prototype

Create a new prototype folder under `src/app/prototypes/` with all required files so the user can immediately start building.

## Inputs

Derive these from the user's request — infer sensible defaults for anything not stated:

| Field | Source | Default |
|---|---|---|
| **slug** | Kebab-case from the title or topic | — |
| **title** | User's description of the prototype | Titlecase of slug |
| **description** | One-sentence summary of what it does | Generic placeholder based on title |
| **author** | User's name if known | `"Team"` |
| **tags** | 2-4 lowercase keywords from the description | `["prototype"]` |
| **createdAt** | Today's date | `YYYY-MM-DD` |
| **interactive** | Whether the prototype needs client-side state | Infer from description |

## Procedure

### 1. Create the folder

```
src/app/prototypes/<slug>/
```

### 2. Create `meta.json`

```json
{
  "title": "<title>",
  "description": "<description>",
  "author": "<author>",
  "tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"],
  "createdAt": "<YYYY-MM-DD>"
}
```

### 3. Create `page.tsx`

If the prototype is **interactive** (needs state, event handlers), add `"use client";` at the top.

Use CSS Modules with VS Code 2026 design tokens from `globals.css` — load the `design-system` skill for the full palette and patterns.

Create a co-located `page.module.css` with styles using CSS custom properties:

```tsx
// page.tsx
import styles from './page.module.css';

export default function MyPrototypePage() {
  return (
    <div className={styles.wrapper}>
      ...
    </div>
  );
}
```

```css
/* page.module.css */
.wrapper {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  gap: 1.5rem;
}

.card {
  border: 1px solid var(--border);
  background: var(--card);
  border-radius: var(--radius-lg);
}

.card:hover {
  border-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--accent) 30%, transparent);
  box-shadow: var(--shadow-md);
}
```

For VS Code icons, use the shared `Codicon` component — see the `design-system` skill for usage and icon reference.

### 4. Ensure the dev server is running

Check if the `dev` task is already running. If not, start it using `run_task` with the `shell: dev` task. Wait for it to be ready before proceeding.

### 5. Open in integrated browser

Open the prototype page at `http://localhost:3000/prototypes/<slug>` in the integrated browser so the user can see it immediately.

Commit message:

Add design documentation and styling

.github/skills/new-prototype/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: new-prototype
description: "Bootstrap a new prototype in the playground. Use when the user wants to create, add, or scaffold a new prototype page."
---

# Bootstrap a New Prototype

Create a new prototype folder under `src/app/prototypes/` with all required files so the user can immediately start building.

## Inputs

Derive these from the user's request — infer sensible defaults for anything not stated:

| Field | Source | Default |
|---|---|---|
| **slug** | Kebab-case from the title or topic | — |
| **title** | User's description of the prototype | Titlecase of slug |
| **description** | One-sentence summary of what it does | Generic placeholder based on title |
| **author** | User's name if known | `"Team"` |
| **tags** | 2-4 lowercase keywords from the description | `["prototype"]` |
| **createdAt** | Today's date | `YYYY-MM-DD` |
| **interactive** | Whether the prototype needs client-side state | Infer from description |

## Procedure

### 1. Create the folder

```
src/app/prototypes/<slug>/
```

### 2. Create `meta.json`

```json
{
  "title": "<title>",
  "description": "<description>",
  "author": "<author>",
  "tags": ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"],
  "createdAt": "<YYYY-MM-DD>"
}
```

### 3. Create `page.tsx`

If the prototype is **interactive** (needs state, event handlers), add `"use client";` at the top.

Use CSS Modules with VS Code 2026 design tokens from `globals.css` — load the `design-system` skill for the full palette and patterns.

Create a co-located `page.module.css` with styles using CSS custom properties:

```tsx
// page.tsx
import styles from './page.module.css';

export default function MyPrototypePage() {
  return (
    <div className={styles.wrapper}>
      ...
    </div>
  );
}
```

```css
/* page.module.css */
.wrapper {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  gap: 1.5rem;
}

.card {
  border: 1px solid var(--border);
  background: var(--card);
  border-radius: var(--radius-lg);
}

.card:hover {
  border-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--accent) 30%, transparent);
  box-shadow: var(--shadow-md);
}
```

For VS Code icons, use the shared `Codicon` component — see the `design-system` skill for usage and icon reference.

### 4. Create `DESIGN.md`

Bootstrap a starter design doc so the team has a place to capture learnings from the first iteration. Load the `design-doc` skill for the full structure reference.

```markdown
# <Title> — Design Doc

> **Status:** Early prototype · **Last updated:** <YYYY-MM-DD>

---

## Problem

<One paragraph describing what user problem or design question this prototype explores.>

## Solution

<One paragraph describing the UX approach — what the user sees and does, not how it's built.>

---

## Open Questions

1. <First open question for the next iteration>
```

Keep it minimal — sections like **Validated Patterns**, **Structure**, and **Scenario** get added as the prototype evolves.

### 5. Ensure the dev server is running

Check if the `dev` task is already running. If not, start it using `run_task` with the `shell: dev` task. Wait for it to be ready before proceeding.

### 6. Open in integrated browser

Open the prototype page at `http://localhost:3000/prototypes/<slug>` in the integrated browser so the user can see it immediately.
